# Robotics-ROS-01-Introduction-to-ROS
Udacity Self-Driving Car Engineer Nanodegree: Introduction to ROS & Packages & Catkin workspace

## Source the ROS Environment

### Environment Setup
```bash
source /opt/ros/kinetic/setup.bash
```

### Inspecting the Environment
```bash
env
```
- ``ROS_ROOT=/opt/ros/kinetic/share/ros`` The path where core ros packages are stored

- ``PATH=/opt/ros/kinetic/bin:...`` The path to the ROS binaries, which we will be using throughout this lesson.

- ``ROS_DISTRO=kinetic`` Which distribution of ROS is being used. In this case, we are using kinetic

- ``PYTHONPATH=/opt/ros/kinetic/lib/python2.7/dist-packages`` The path to the ROS python packages.

### Automatically Configuring the Environment

```bash
~/.bashrc file
```

This will cause our environment to be sourced any time a new terminal session is created.

## Run Turtlesim
### Starting the Master process

```bash
roscore
```

The Master process is responsible for the following (and more)
- Providing naming and registration services to other running nodes
- Tracking all publishers and subscribers
- Aggregating log messages generated by the nodes
- Facilitating connections between nodes

### Running Turtlesim Nodes

First we will start the ``turtlesim_node``, in the ``turtlesim`` package using the following command.

```bash
rosrun turtlesim turtlesim_node
```

Next, we will start the ``turtle_teleop_key`` node, also from the ``turtlesim`` package.

```bash
rosrun turtlesim turtle_teleop_key
```
## List
### Listing all Active Nodes

To get a list of all nodes that are active and have been registered with the ROS Master, we can use the command ``rosnode list``.

```bash
rosnode list
```

- ``/rosout`` This node is launched by roscore. It subscribes to the standard /rosout topic, the topic to which all nodes send log messages.

- ``/teleop_turtle`` This is our keyboard teleop node. 

- ``/turtlesim`` The node name associated with the turtlebot_sim node

### Listing All Topics

We are able to query the ROS Master for a list of all topics.

```bash
rostopic list
```
- ``/rosout_agg`` Aggregated feed of messages published to /rosout.
- ``/turtle1/cmd_vel`` Topic upon which velocity commands are sent/received. Publishing a velocity message to this topic will command turtle1 to move.
- ``/turtle1/color_sensor`` Each turtle in turtlesim is equipped with a color sensor, and readings from the sensor are published to this topic.
- ``/turtle1/pose`` The position and orientation of turtle1 are published to this topic.

### Get Information About a Specific Topic

If we wish to get information about a specific topic, who is publishing to it, subscribed to it, or the type of message associated with it, we can use the command ``$rostopic info``.

```bash
rostopic info /turtle1/cmd_vel
```

### Show Message Information

Let’s get some more information about the ``geometry_msgs/Twist`` message on the ``/turtle1/cmd_vel`` topic

```bash
rosmsg info geometry_msgs/Twist
```

### Echo Messages on a Topic

Sometimes it may be useful to look at a topic’s published messages in real time. To do so, we can use the command ``rostopic echo``. 

```bash
rostopic echo /turtle1/cmd_vel
```

## Catkin Workspaces

### Create a Catkin Workspace


First, create the top level catkin workspace directory and a sub-directory named src. 

The top level directory’s name is arbitrary, but is often called catkin_ws.

Next, navigate to the src directory.

Now you can initialize the catkin workspace.

Return to the top level directory, and build the workspace.

```bash
mkdir -p ~/catkin_ws/src
cd ~/catkin_ws/src
catkin_init_workspace
cd ~/catkin_ws
catkin_make
```

### Add a Package

Cloning the simple_arm Package

```bash
cd ~/catkin_ws/src
git clone https://github.com/udacity/simple_arm_01.git simple_arm
```

Building the simple_arm package

```bash
cd ~/catkin_ws
catkin_make
```

Installing Missing Packages Using apt-get

```bash
sudo apt-get install ros-kinetic-controller-manager
```

### Roslaunchroslaunch allows you to do the following

``roslaunch`` allows you to do the following
- Launch ROS Master and multiple nodes with one simple command
- Set default parameters on the parameter server
- Automatically re-spawn processes that have died

To use roslaunch, you must first make sure that your workspace has been built, and sourced.

```bash
cd ~/catkin_ws
catkin_make
source devel/setup.bash
roslaunch simple_arm robot_spawn.launch
```

